Misc Advanced Features
Jump to navigationJump to search

The Misc. Advanced Features tab contains the variable and equation viewer, the description instructions field, the summary instructions field, and the JSON viewer and import tool. These are some of the most powerful options available to world authors.


Contents
1	Variable and Equation Viewer
2	Description Instructions
2.1	Default Instructions
2.2	Description Tips
3	Summary Instructions
3.1	Summary Tips
4	JSON Viewer and Import Tool
5	See Also
Variable and Equation Viewer
The variable and equation viewer allow the author to view the names of all variables on pressing the View variable names and equation options button. This contains a list of all variables, such as tracked items, the player character's name, or the player character's skills. A number of built-in functions are available and are described in this viewer. Authors can also test any equations they come up with in this window.

Description Instructions
Description Instructions is one of the most powerful and therefore important fields available to a world author. This field tells the Storyteller AI how to write and what to write. From forbidding certain outputs to requiring outputs, description instructions has greater influence over the contents of outcomeDescription, secretInfo, and, if the storyteller has tracked item write permissions, even tracked items.

Default Instructions
There is a default instruction set for description instructions that is completely overwritten when any text is written into the description instructions field. These instructions are noted above the input field, and should be copied into the text box when an author is only making a small modification that does not otherwise contradict those instructions.

Briefly describe the immediate results of my action, without any preamble or reminding me of who my character is. Describe any dialogue in full. Describe the physical appearance of any newly introduced characters in detail. Remember that things may go well - or very badly - for my character. Please write your description over several paragraphs.

Although these instructions are serviceable and decently sufficient for many worlds, t

Description Tips
To enforce point-of-view and tense, try writing something like the following:
Always write in first-person point of view, present tense, from my perspective.

Authors can enforce writing information into e.g. secretInfo.
The AI will take these instructions literally. Try writing:
Always begin and end every sentence with 'QUACK'

To reduce the incidence of duplicate names, give instructions such as
Always give each character completely unique first names, last names, middle names, and/or nicknames.

Description instructions are designed to tell the AI how to describe things, but note that they are not limited to this; they are essentially extra instructions which strongly affect the AI's responses. Therefore description instructions can affect the substance of the outputs as well as the writing style, intentionally or otherwise.
Summary Instructions
Summary Instructions allow an author to tell the Summary AI what information they want the summary to focus on, how to handle character records, what kinds of plot threads to examine, and how detailed they want the summary to be.

The summary includes:

Main summary
Plot threads
Character records
Summary Tips
The first summary is written on turn 8, at which point the Storyteller AI no longer sees the background, nor does it see further than 6 turns into the past (and no less than 2 turns).
Main summary is currently restricted to a maximum of 1500 words before it is instructed to condense existing summary information.
To keep image information consistently up to date within character records, include this line:
Ensure character appearance matches illustrAppearance and illustrClothes.

Characters are referenced by their names for both their details and appearance information; to reduce collisions (character referenced with the same name), use description instructions to reduce the incidence of duplicate names.
The summary AI (which produces the Main Summary) is not able to see Tracked Items (Confirmed by Fox via Discord)
JSON Viewer and Import Tool
The JSON viewer and import tool allow an author to look at the raw JSON document that comprises their world. While this JSON can be edited, it is vital that the user understand that any modifications made to the JSON will not be saved unless the Import JSON to world button is pressed; this is true even when the Save changes and exit or Save and play now buttons are pressed. Additionally, any changes made to the world outside the JSON will not appear in the JSON unless the Refresh raw JSON button is pressed. Despite these shortcomings, the usefulness of the JSON document cannot be overstated:

The JSON document can be copied into an external editor (such as Notepad++) for syntax highlighting and validation
Triggers can be added, removed, re-ordered, or otherwise fully edited
Tracked Items can be added, removed, re-ordered, or otherwise fully edited
Every field can be modified, extended, or otherwise examined
Certain variable names are visible that are otherwise not explicated