World editing
Jump to navigationJump to search
While worlds can be built using just the AI, there are many features which you can manually adjust in the world editor, to build a complex world with lots of characters and backstory, or to build systems (e.g. statistics, inventories, etc.) which define the player's experience.


Contents
1	Accessing the World Editor
2	Standard World Sections
3	Advanced World Sections
4	Guides and Further Topics
4.1	Articles Pertaining to Tracked Items
4.2	Articles Pertaining to Images
4.3	Other Articles
5	See Also
Accessing the World Editor
After generating a world, an author can find the world at the top of the Your Worlds section in the World Browser. They can then click the Edit button underneath the play button to open the world editor. Worlds can also be accessed during play via Storyteller mode, which can be enabled by opening the main menu in the top right of the game interface, then selecting Storyteller mode: off, hitting OK, then using the pen icon underneath the main output, above the option list, then selecting View/edit world design.

Standard World Sections
There are five standard world sections every world uses at world generation, filled by the World Generator or selected by world author:

Introducing the Story
Introducing the story includes a combination of user-facing and storyteller-influencing fields.
Main Instructions
Main instructions contains the meat of the content and decision-making prompt given to the storyteller AI every turn, including the author style.
Image style
This is the image generation art style and wrapper instructions that direct the image AI's output.
Player character options
This is where skills and player characters are defined and implemented.
Victory and defeat
This is where the primary victory and defeat conditions of the world are defined. Note that this is currently hidden behind the Show optional features checkbox in the world editor interface.
Advanced World Sections
There are six advanced sections for every world, accessed by ticking the Show optional features checkbox in the world editor interface. These sections do not need to be edited to produce a fun and enjoyable world, but can be used to create complex systems, address special situations, add more victory and defeat situations, and more directly manipulate outputs and summary. These sections are:

Other Characters
Other characters is a list of author-crafted characters that an user can be encountered during gameplay.
Keyword Instruction Blocks
Keyword instruction blocks contain lists of instruction blocks that are added to the end of main instructions only when their keywords are detected. Formerly called Lore Books.
Tracked Items
Tracked items are author-made variables that store data in a variety of types.
Trigger Events
Trigger events are conditional procedures that execute various effects on the world when their conditions are met.
Misc Advanced Features
Misc Advanced Features includes the Description instructions, the summary, and the variable list and equation tester.
Permissions
Permissions contains two checkboxes: one that prevents other users from creating links to share the world, and another that prevents other users from viewing and editing the instructions of the world.