Illustration Instructions
Jump to navigationJump to search
It's common to want to influence the illustrations that IW provides. Though these are taken care of by a seperate image-generation AI, the prompts to that AI are written by the storytelling AI. Therefore we can provide instructions to guide the storytelling AI in providing these prompts.

Illustrating the Player Character
By default, IW tells the AI not to illustrate the player character to prevent it from doing so all the time. However, this means that it is very rare, even when it would be appropriate - for example, taking an action to "look in the mirror" often results in an illustration of a mirror, rather than the character themselves.

Thankfully, influence this can be as simple as

Always set the illustration subject to be my character.
This is not usually desirable, since the AI will now never (or rarely) illustrate anything else. However, it is easy enough to specify situations under which the illustration subject should be changed - for example:

Set the illustration subject to be my character whenever I change my appearance significantly, examine my own appearance, or look in the mirror.
This can also be used in Storyteller mode if you wish to see your character just for one turn (though this can influence the written output too, often causing it to focus more on a description of the character's appearance).

Further Illustration Prompt Control
The AI outputs certain variables for the different parts of the illustration prompt. You can use these variables to tell the AI what prompts to put where. Note that whilst the AI does understand that "the illustration subject" is the same as "illustrSubject", best results are achieved using the correct variable names (especially for the different prompt variables).

For example:

Whenever Bob is the illustration subject, always append "bright purple fedora hat" to illustrClothes
This is unlikely to be a practical prompt as it will now always cause Bob to be illustrated wearing a purple hat even if, in the story, he takes it off. However, you can also give guidance rather than strict rules to the AI, such as:

Whenever Bob is the illustration subject, always include detailed descriptions of any hat or headgear he is wearing in illustrClothes