Main instructions
Jump to navigationJump to search
Main Instructions is the meat of a world. In it, you may describe everything the AI should know about your world, from the general description of the world to specific instructions the AI should always follow.

It's important to note that the bulk of the turn cost of a world is determined by the length of Main Instructions. There are several methods available to help you mitigate this cost, such as placing detailed information into lore books.


Contents
1	Main Instructions
2	Extra Instruction Blocks
3	Author Style
3.1	Tips
4	Design Notes
5	Mature Content
6	Content Warnings
Main Instructions
Main instructions is the primary block of instructions on which all other AI "decision-making" instructions are built and/or concatenated with (namely Extra Instruction Blocks and Keyword Instruction Blocks). This can contain descriptions of setting, tone, mechanics, key elements, structure, characters, and more.

Extra Instruction Blocks
Extra Instruction Blocks are functionally identical to the Main Instructions, except they are separated out and appended to the end of the primary Main Instructions field. The key benefit to the extra blocks is being able to modify them through triggers. This way, you may modify specific segments of the main instructions without having to change the entirety of Main Instructions all at once, allowing you to account for complex game states.

For example, you could have a "Character Specific" block. Then you could create a trigger for each of your player characters which would modify that extra block in order to inject specific instructions for each character into Main Instructions.

Author Style
Author Style describes to the AI exactly what role it will take in writing each turn, what style, tone, and approach it should use when writing, and what authors to emulate, if any. This could range from genre (e.g. comedy) to era (e.g. medieval) to ideas (e.g. "a focus on philosophical musings") to specific people (e.g. "in the style of H.G. Wells"). This has one of the strongest effects of any block on how the AI will sound in your world.

You may try other methods than those listed above. It's not a limited field, and it's up to the AI how to interpret what you enter. There is no limit on the amount of text you can add to this field.

Tips
One thing to note about AI models is that they adopt the role and approach that the instructions appear to use/assign them; that is, if the instructions imply amateurish writing, then the AI may often write amateurishly. This does open up the opportunity to tell the AI what it is good at. Specifically, if one has a world that relies on the AI to do mathematical operations correctly, consistently, etc., one can write into the author style, alongside any other statements, something to the effect of [...] that is exceptionally precise with and good at mathematics.

Design Notes
An optional field where you can keep personal notes or info for others who made a copy of your world. It has no bearing on the world itself and is never given to the AI. By default, this contains the original prompt given to the World Generator.

Mature Content
A Boolean flag to denote if your world has mature content or not. Note that "mature content" does not imply NSFW (pornographic) content, but it does include it. Any adult topic--such as drugs, slavery, gore, etc--would be considered mature.

This flag is purely for sorting purposes, and has no bearing on how the AI behaves. Users must choose to enable mature content to see your world in Community Worlds.

Note that while every world is capable of engaging in mature topics, this flag should only be set if you've explicitly included mature topics in your instructions or other world information.

Content Warnings
Content Warnings is a comma-separated list of possible themes in your world which users may find off-putting or triggering. The items in this list may be as specific or general as you want, and are not required regardless of the world content. For example: "drug use, violence, sex".

These will display in a pop-up when attempting to start playing your world, and users must agree to being exposed to the listed themes in order to continue.