Introducing the Story
Jump to navigationJump to search

Introducing the Story is where a world author can write and edit a number of player-facing and storyteller AI facing elements.


Contents
1	User-only Fields
1.1	Title
1.2	Version Tracking
1.3	Description
1.4	Cover Image
2	Story Fields
2.1	Background
2.2	First Action
2.3	Objective
User-only Fields
User-only fields are input fields that an user sees, but which have absolutely no effect on the storyteller AI. There are four user-only fields under Introducing the Story:

Title
This field is the title of the world. The title appears on the world's card in the world browser and at the top of the game interface.

Version Tracking
This is an optional field that is on by default, and defaults to a value of 1. This field is also set to auto-increment on edit. The automatic incrementation can be disabled by a checkbox. Version tracking can also be disabled via checkbox.

Description
This is a text field for the world that appears on the world's card in the world browser, underneath the title. This is ideal for writing a brief description of the content/intention of the world and any other information an author might want players to see.

Cover Image
The cover image appears on the world's card in the world browser to the left of the title and description. This can either be a generated image using the world's image style, or a file uploaded by the author.

Story Fields
Story fields are input fields that influence the storyteller AI. There are three story fields under Introducing the Story:

Background
The background field is a text block shown to the player in a pop-up before the first turn of the game. The storyteller AI also receives the contents of the background until the first summary event, at which point the Summary AI receives the background and incorporates it into the game summary. Background can have a significant effect on the writing and process of a game. It can influence the point-of-view the storyteller AI writes in (e.g. it can cause it to write in second or first person, even contrary to main instructions), the general writing style, and plays a major role in setting the stage and tone of the story going forward.

First Action
First action is seen by the AI only once, and is used to prompt the storyteller AI in the same way users prompt the AI during play. First action can be modified with a trigger.

Objective
The objective is an optional field shown to the player once, as a message at the end of the first turn. The storyteller AI is given the objective field every turn, and is explicitly told that this is the player's objective. As a result, this causes objective to be a very powerful tool in the hands of a world author. Objective can be modified with a trigger.